# GROUPS

## THE IMPERIUM (IMPERIUM GALACTICA)
Centered on IMPERIAL CITY, a gargantuan starship. The seat of the EMPEROR (ZOEAVE CHADARC), whose family has the unique ability to Fold space, moving the entire ship in the blink of an eye between nearly any two points in space. Accompanied by a great IMPERIAL FLEET, which docks with the city. Primary purpose of the city is its immense FREIGHTYARDS, the means by which interstellar trade is conducted. Freighters drop off and lock on during the city’s visit to a system, and it’s the only means of trade across worlds. The empire uses its stranglehold on trade to regulate export licenses, refusing to carry/buy any goods which are not licensed. In practice, this results in near-monopolies of many critical goods. The size of the imperial family is a closely held secret, but it is known that only female members of the family have the Folding power (males born with it are put to death). The First Emperor (ALISCAR CHADRAC) opened the stars to humanity, but did so by preventing the formation of any true interstellar government. Prior to the Empire, Folding was a rare and unreliable talent, and most of humanity’s initial colony systems traveled by slowship—many of whom were disgruntled to find an Emperor popping up in their system after they’d thought themselves forgotten and independent. However, there was a small network of Fold-established colonies (perhaps a dozen), who form the Homeworlds. These were intended as the start of a true interstellar empire, although they were extremely rebellious. Now, anyone found (when tested at 16 for Guild membership) to have Folding talent is killed and denied access to the afterlife. The IMPERIAL CITY visits each place for roughly a couple of weeks, and there are 50 systems—meaning an official IMPERIAL YEAR is 100 weeks. Each system celebrates their New Year when the CITY visits.
* Interstellar trade looks like the Imperium buying and reselling, for the most part; simply collecting a transport fee is less common.


## THE RELIGION (FIRMAS SOLAS)
An all-male religion, and the sole contact between the world of the living and the world of the dead. Afterlife is a known, real thing, but the religion holds substantial sway over who is admitted and who may be contacted. They spend much of their time laying down prophesies meant to further their many secret causes, the greatest of which is their desire to break the Imperial monopoly on Folding—although in public, they support the Imperium completely. Their connection to the Other Side gives them many subtle powers, such as being able to detect lies. The religion’s IUDICIUM (judge: IUDEX) can act as a final arbitrator for judgements, both Imperial and planetary. When solicited, their judgements are swift and immediate; in cases where death is the penalty, they deny entry into the afterlife. REVERED FATHERS advise most planetary leaders and the Emperor. Members of the religion are forbidden to marry, although members with acceptable genetics are encouraged to procreate. The First Emperor placed that and other significant restrictions on the Religion in exchange for not obliterating them; the Religion secretly detests the Emperor on principle, and seeks to establish an interstellar republic in which they play a guiding role. Led by IMPERIAL HIGH PRIEST CURTUS PENMYN.

## HMIs, or, Cognauts
These are humans who have the ability to connect their minds to nearby computers to perform incredibly feats of computation. Human Machine Interfaces (HMIs, or “Cognauts” for a more nostalgic term) are discovered, nurtured, and trained by their Guild, and act within its auspices. Truly gifted Cognauts can take over the minds of other nearby humans, and use them as parallel compute arrays—although they risk burnout of both those humans and themselves. Cognauts serve the role of AI in this world, because actual AI was outlawed after the ancient AI Insurrections. Folding can sometimes require the assistance of a Cognaut, especially when Folding to a place the practitioner is unfamiliar with (which the Imperial City essentially never does, as the Imperium is no longer in an expansionist mode). Guild Head, CARLYND LUCEND.

## THE ARMY (THE SHEXOSANT)
Formed exclusively from the population of the planet SHEXIM IV, the army maintains at least a legion on all but the most sparsely populated of worlds. The Imperial Legion travels with the Imperial City. The army is independent, and their sole purpose is to strictly enforce Imperial Law. The Law was given down by the First Emperor and may not be changed or interpreted. Therefore, the Army includes a Judicial component. The Emperor is not above the law, and in fact the main purpose for the army’s existence is to keep the Emperor in check. A General-Advocate advises the Emperor on matters of the Law. The Army’s world was one of the original Homeworlds, and they were originally set up to be loyal to the proto-Emperor. The First Emperor had to compromise and make them independent, knowing that her descendants would need the check-and-balance. (The First Emperor is well-regarded as wise and humble; her descendants, less so.) Led by IMPERIAL GENERAL COLMAR ALLSTO.

## THE GUILD (THE SPIER)
The Empire’s other interstellar guild (aside from Cognauts) is comprised of telekinetics and telepaths. Membership is compulsory for anyone found to have these talents, which are still referred to by magical/mystical names even though the science is now more well-understood. All citizens are tested at 16 years of age, and the Guild maintains a Guild Hall on all but the most sparsely populated planets. Guild telepaths offer the most private (and expensive) form of interstellar communications, as they are tightly bound by Guild law. Telekinetics offer the most precise material-movement, and are crucial in the zero-gee construction of in-system ships. Led by GUILDMASTER CLAYMIL OVENELL.

## THE SYSTEMS
The 50 Star systems are ruled by a Great House, an inheritance-based, feudal-like system of Barons, Dukes, and such—almost inevitably women hold the leading titles, although a male may do so for an interim period if necessary. If a House dies out, the Emperor elevates a new one, but a system cannot be taken from a Great House otherwise, unless they consent. Wars are not unheard-of: nothing prevents the Emperor from transporting attack ships and surface troops, excepting potential political blowback that would disrupt trade. Most well-populated systems maintain large standing armies, in-system defense ships, and even defensive satellites and the like. The government of each system varies widely, from republics to pure democracies, oligarchies, and more. Theologies are the only form of government that tends to not exist in a stable fashion, as the Religion works hard to discourage them. Generally, if the Religion were to deny afterlife to a passing House leader, the House would be seen as seriously crippled and likely be attacked. The Religion would exercise that option only under duress, as doing so would risk eroding their support amongst the other Houses. Houses are generally divided into HOUSES MAJOR, HOUSES MINOR, and HOUSES ASCENDENT (in descending order of size and influence).

## THE LINK
A technological interstellar communications system, the Link was invented a century or so after the Empire’s formation. It competes with Imperial couriers and the Guild. Its inventor carefully released the plans for the technology, preventing any true monopoly on it. That said, it is a point-to-point system. One large planet (GOZION III, led by AYLITIA TWINCAN) is the only one with a sophisticated digital routing system, although they are notoriously corrupt and known to eavesdrop on communications. They’re the least expensive means of reliably routing a message. Many planets maintain distinct point-to-point links with strong allies, and that network forms a less-reliable, Internet-style communications network—with absolutely no guarantees of confidentiality, save for what your relationships are likely to get you. The Religion is permitted to use the central Link network for free between their chapter houses, and there’s a tacit agreement that eavesdropping on those would be a Bad Idea. So the Religion often takes on back-channel diplomacy.

## THE AFTERLIFE
Life after death is real. While the dead cannot reach out to the living, trained members of the Religion—Conduits—can easily contact any of the dead to ask for advice, information, and so on. The “communing” is seen as a critical means of ensuring stability, as Imperial and system leaders can readily consult with their forebears. Some few of the dead—such as former ambassadors—have a regular check-in schedule, making it possible for them to relay messages between their contacts amongst the living. This would be the MOST confidential means of passing information, but it’s subject to the whim and interpretations of the dead. When “communing,” the dead appear as glowing, hazy figures superimposed over the priest who summoned them, and communicate directly with the living. For major leaders, this is done routinely and for free; for the ordinary populace, donations of time or service to the chapter house is the norm.

## THE PROPHESY
The Religion maintains a somewhat-secret prophesy, of a day when a female will be found who can join their ranks and exercise all of their powers, including that of the Conduits and Cognauts. That female will betray the Religion and marry into a Great House, bearing a son who will have the powers both of the Emperor and the Religion (a male Cognaut and/or Conduit who can Fold), resulting in a Great Unification that will put that son on the Imperial throne, uniting the Great Houses, the Imperium, and the Religion. Tactically, the Religion believes this will result in a Great Theocracy with themselves in a key position. And they’re not too concerned about the female in the prophesy—what they want is a male of their order on the throne.

## IMPERIAL LAW
Imperial Law is fixed, interpreted literally, and enforced by the Army.

1. To threaten Imperium is cause for extermination.

2. Houses Major, Minor, and Ascendent hold their system through  line of succession and strength of arm. Houses may voluntarily release their system to Imperium. If there is no line of succession and no holding Hosue, Imperium may elevate a lower-order House to hold a system. No House may hold more than one system.

3. Imperium exercises full control and final authority of what is transported by the Imperial City, and what fees are imposed.

4. The Shexosant is fully independent, and strictly enforces Imperial law on everyone, including Imperium, without interpretation.

5. All Imperial citizens are registered at birth and tested at 16 years of age; any found with the power of distant thought or arm (telepathy or telekinetic) shall be joined to the Spier; any found with the power of Cognaution shall be joined to the Cognaut Guild; any found with the power of Folding shall be put to death and denied an Afterlife.

6. The Firma Animarum is independent provided it inducts no women into its ranks. The judgements of the Firma Animarum Iudicium, when requested, shall be final and absolute. The Firma Animarum shall have final determination of entry into the Afterlife, and sole power to mediate between this life and the one After.

7. This is the whole of the Law, never to be bent or amended.

## UNIMPERIUM WORLDS
* As you might expect, there is a REBELLION of sorts, consisting of a few systems that sit outside the Imperium and who have their own rogue Folders. They refer to themselves as the UnImperium Worlds. A certain number of Imperium worlds—primarily those early ones founded by slowship—have a secret alliance with the UnImperium, as they firmly wish to break the Imperial monopoly on interstellar travel. They do not necessarily want an interstellar government _per se,_ but they’d rather negotiate their own trade and simply pay for carriage. They propose the CONSOCIATIO COMMERCIUM GRATIS, a Free Trade Guild, which would be the galaxy’s third Guild. It would continue to have a monopoly on Folding _training_, but would be subject to market powers and wouldn’t stop free agents.

