# PLOTLINES

## PLOTS

* A young man, JAIDEN KENTUR, just turned 18, has been raised by the Religion on CHIOTIS III after being orphaned. He is taken by a priest (RHETBRAND HARRBRAS) to the Imperial City to take a vocation (with the Emperor’s permission) as he was not born into the Religion and doesn’t have the necessary aptitudes (e.g., communing or cognaution) to remain. Turns out... he’s the Emperor’s natural-born son, and the Religion believes he can Fold. Winds up being hired by the uprising family (below) as an advisor, after meeting the family head on Imperial City advising on protocols.
	* We discover the imperial link when Jaiden joins the Laxhast family. Their family priest, JETTNIC SANTEAS, does a routine genetic test—something done to help avoid potentially poor pairings amongst people. This was never done with Jaiden was younger, but it’s the custom within the Order to only do them when a priest wants to procreate, since not all do.  

* A smaller ruling family (led by IRELLA LAXHAST)—in a system (HEMITHEA)  with no habitable planets but lots of rich asteroids and gas giants—is visited by the Imperial City. The offer is to elevate them, putting them in control of a planet (PROXIMA CENDRA IV, one of the oldest human colonies and established by slowship) that is the only source for a rare and valuable medicine (which happens to manage a genetic disease the Imperial females all have). But the Emperor can’t intervene directly—save to waive the fees on their transport, and illicitly giving them a bioweapon (under the auspices of, this is safer in your hands because you don’t have a planet) that will wipe out the existing family (led by CARLLIS STEVKIR). And everyone else on the planet. For close to a decade—they’ll have to remain in space suits for that long, basically. But it won’t affect the non-human natives who actually gather the drug, who’ve essentially been enslaved by the former ruling family.
	* Taking over the planet involves a big make-up with the local species, the HEPHITH.  

* As you might expect, there is a REBELLION of sorts, consisting of a few systems that sit outside the Imperium and who have their own rogue Folders. They refer to themselves as the UnImperium Worlds. A certain number of Imperium worlds—primarily those early ones founded by slowship—have a secret alliance with the UnImperium, as they firmly wish to break the Imperial monopoly on interstellar travel. They do not necessarily want an interstellar government _per se,_ but they’d rather negotiate their own trade and simply pay for carriage. They propose the CONSOCIATIO COMMERCIUM GRATIS, a Free Trade Guild, which would be the galaxy’s third Guild. It would continue to have a monopoly on Folding _training_, but would be subject to market powers and wouldn’t stop free agents.
